# SAGVouchers-Front-End
Angular front end for SAG Vouchers app

## Link to live site
[https://bones81.github.io/SAGVouchers-Front-End/](https://bones81.github.io/SAGVouchers-Front-End/)

## Link to back end repo
https://github.com/Bones81/SAGVouchers-Back-End

## Technologies used
* Angular 13.3.1
* Express
* Typescript
* Node
* Npm
* Path
* Rxjs

## Description
This front end app enables users to calculate how much they should earn when working as a SAG-AFTRA background performer (i.e. an extra) on a primetime television show or feature film in the NYC tv/film region. 

When you work as an extra, you fill out a _voucher_ that records all the relevant data that affects the amount you earn: call time, out time, meal breaks, your base rate, night work premiums, bumps, etc.

This app requires users to input this data from such a voucher, which it then uses to calculate the amount the performer should earn!

Currently, users can perform full CRUD (create, read, update, delete) functions on the entire list of vouchers present in the site's database. The app adds/consumes JSON data to/from https://sag-voucher-back-end.herokuapp.com/. 

Architecturally, the app uses the Angular framework's components, services, and interfaces to distribute and modularize functionality. 

## Paths
* '/', redirects to '/vouchers'
* '/vouchers', lists all created voucher records
* '/voucher/:id, shows stored data for a single voucher with given id
* '/form, shows blank form for adding a new voucher record
* 'edit/:id' shows form with data relevant to given id, for updating voucher record

## Approach Taken
I conceived this app as part of a final project in General Assembly's Software Engineering Immersive bootcamp. The primary goal of the final project was to demonstrate a capacity for learning a new piece of technology (a language, framework, library, etc.) not previously covered in the course. As a result, I created this app with, and explore the basic features of, the Angular front end framework, which had not been covered in the course.

I spent around 3 days learning Angular via documentation, tutorials, blog articles, and YouTube guides, all along determining the viability of developing this app in the required time frame. I built two test Angular apps (including the 'Tour of Heroes' tutorial in Angular documentation) that ultimately proved very useful in guiding development of this app. 

The heart of this app's potential usefulness is in the actual calculating of the sum a performer should earn, given the data on their voucher. As a result, I started building the app from this feature. I used Angular CLI to start the project, generate a form component, and wrote out the voucher Interface, and the form component Typescript. Many of the calculations were relatively straightforward. However, calculating night premiums (the additional 10% or 20% wages bonus a performer earns for working beyond 8pm and 1am, respectively) proved to be especially hairy logic to write. The most challenging times of development were definitely the several days needed to hash out the many, many permutations of night premiums.

It's hard to overestimate how much of an emotional roller coaster this project set me on. Ultimately, I chose to trust the process in the belief that the app would ultimately work well enough. 

Once the calculator portion of the app reached a relatively bug-free state, I added the ability to save voucher data (by either creating a new voucher or updating an existing one), show stored values from a single voucher, show summary details from all vouchers, or delete a given voucher. This meant the app exercised full CRUD capability (create, read, update, destroy).

Heroku deployment was a little bit trickier than other apps I had deployed to Heroku. Angular requires a basic server file be included in order to serve the static files generated by running 'ng build,' the command which sets up your app for production. Hence, a simple server.js exists, and it runs the files in the 'dist' directory that gets created after running 'ng build.'

## Unsolved Problems
* There are likely/possibly edge cases not fully covered by the calculator logic.
* There are likely error handling scenarios that are not currently being handled appropriately.
* Styling is very plain, and UX needs work.
* Currently the voucher-detail component only displays data from the stored voucher object. It would be nice to include some of the calculator functions from the form component so that some calculated values for that voucher id could be listed in the voucher-detail component as well. (Perhaps this means using @input or @output decorators.)

## User Stories
* User wants to know how much they will earn from their day on set as a union primetime tv/film extra in the NYC region. 
* User wants to view previous vouchers they have entered to compare why they earned more or less on a different day of work.
* User realized they will not get a pay bump for having a beard since it was not a specific condition of employment for that day. User can edit the relevant voucher record and see the updated amount they can expect to earn. 

## Notes
It would be great to add user auth such that users would be able to access only their own list of vouchers. Not sure if that would be handled on front or back end.
